# Journal 2025-02-27

I broke my earlier #:postcraft site builder setup (that publishes this) a few weeks ago. Rather than spend time fixing that as it was I decided to push on in the direction I want things to go. #:postcraft is an *application* of #:transmissions, my pipeliney thing.

A key aspect of *my plans* is using a SPARQL store for data (content) management. I've made quick & dirty #:transmissions #:processors to do SPARQL `UPDATE` and `SELECT`. They're using #:nunjucks templating - which involves a bit of code duplication at the moment, I already have a `:Templater` processor. But I want to get the publishing working end-to-end before tidying things up (there is *tonnes* of tidying to do).

I've got as far as having near-enough templating (the #:sparql-diamonds strategy) to get the rendered content in #:messages. The target paths for the ultimate HTML pages is in the messages too. But while I've got some basic (JSON) message structuring in the `:Restructure` processor, it only covers moving things around, I need to mess with the JSON keys & values as strings to get the target file path/names.

I'm aware there are existing libs for JSON transformation kind of thing. I actually had to use one, JMESPath, as a core part of my last quasi-dayjob. In a past life I spent quite a lot of time around XSLT, same general idea. But I've been reluctant to commit to any lib for this, because #:transmissions processors are intended to be small, composable units, and I needed to discover what was needed. Restructuring the shape of the JSON is one aspect. I've got a copy - (currently misnamed `rename`) and a `remove`.        

## StringOps Processor

Ok, another pass at the procedure for making a new #:transmissions #:processor (I want AI to do all this for me asap).

1. **Rough idea of what's needed, with example(s)**

**Input :**
* a root target path **A** is specified *as a config setting* (eg. `/home/danny/sites/strandz.it/postcraft/public`)
* a relative path **B** is provided *in the message* (the SPARQL `SELECT` results give a `message.currentItem.relPath.value`, eg. `data/input/2025-02-11`)
* a slug is provided **C** *in the message* (`message.currentItem.slug.value`, eg. `input2`)
* a filename extension is specified **D**  *as a config setting* (eg. `.html`)

**Process :**
* A,B,C,D are joined to make E

**Output :**
* E

**Side Effects :** none.

Hmm. In this case it isn't a simple string concat, an fs path is needed (with appropriate `path.sep` as needed), Ok, add another **Input** :

* the *nature* of the operation - ok, for now all that's needed is concat-like, either simple string or path  

2. __Determine (more formal) *Processor Signature*__

Heh, I see the *Signature* (expressed in a comment) `src/processors/example-group/ExampleProcessor.js` is lagging what I have in code. The inputs can come from `message`, `manifest.ttl` or `config.ttl` transparently in that order of precedence. ...And even the code isn't updated to where I'm at in my head - `Processor.getProperty(predicate term)` should be marked *deprecated*, in favour of `getValue`/`getValues`. I'll get back to that...

A major #:todo is to make a *Single Source of Truth*, terms for (something like) a `sig: http://purl.org/stuff/processors`  ontology. It should be possible to reason about these things.

But this'll do for now. First pass, in a `transmissions.ttl` I'll have :

```turtle
:px a :StringOps ;
  :settings :filenameConstructor .
```

In the corresponding `config.ttl` :

```turtle
:filenameConstructor a :ConfigSet ;
  :asPath true ;
  :values (:a :b :c :d) .
  :a :string "/home/danny/sites/strandz.it/postcraft/public" .
  :b :field "currentItem.relPath.value" .
  :c :field "currentItem.slug.value" .
  :d :string ".html" .
```

The path in `:a` should come from the `manifest.ttl` (for site `strandz.it`), but that'll happen automatically anyway. But it will need a *sensible default* in `config.ttl`.

Copied and renamed dir `src/applications/example-application` to `src/applications/test/stringops`

3. **Do boilerplate**

First question is, will this new processor fit in an existing group?
The functionality is cross-JSON-structure string-ish ops. I do have a group `processors/text`. But the immediate use case is for a path, and there's `processors/fs`. Hmm... For now I'll put this new processor in `processors/json`, not a big deal (which suggests it should go in `processors/staging`). Decide later!

If a new processor group was needed, I'd need to make a copy of (& rename) `src/processors/example-group` (and add a ref in `src/engine/AbstractProcessorFactory.js`). But using `src/processors/json` only means copying `src/processors/example-group/ExampleProcessor.js` and adding a ref in `src/processors/json/JSONProcessorsFactory.js`.

4. **Implement!**

I made a little util to help with lists for (which I'm certain Bergi will tell me is unneccesary), used in `/home/danny/hyperdata/transmissions/src/processors/json/Restructure.js` as:
`GrapoiHelpers.listToArray(config, this.settingsNode, term)`

Ew, I think I may have some code duplication around `Restructure`. A couple of a days ago I added
`src/utils/JSONUtils.js` to address fields in the message, which I needed for `MarkdownToHTML`. Whatever, there's `JSONUtils.find()` which can do the `get`ting needed here (hmm, it maybe should be incorporated into `processor.getValues()` too).

5. **Test!!**
