# Journal 2025-03-05

So I've got the #:transmissions applications `src/applications/md-to-sparqlstore` and `src/applications/sparqlstore-to-html` approaching what I need. There's still a bit of hackiness in the JS, but I don't need to worry about that right now.

These are for publishing documentation. But the docs I've got are very fragmented, my plan is to use #:semem (Semantic Memory) with a little bit of added AI to help organise them. I need to circle back to that very soon.

But first, the nuts & bolts of these applications.

The command :

```sh
./trans -v md-to-sparqlstore ~/sites/strandz.it/postcraft
```

should be picking up `strandz.it/postcraft/manifest.ttl` and using that for it's instance config. I can see right way that's not working correctly, `DirWalker` is walking `/home/danny/hyperdata/transmissions/src/applications/md-to-sparqlstore/data/input` rather than what's in the manifest:
```turtle
:sourceDir "/home/danny/sites/danny.ayers.name/postcraft/content-raw" .
```

Hmm. I've got the `--verbose`/`-v` command-line arg to show the `logger.debug` statements, but that got a bit overwhelming, so moved most, including those in `DirWalker` to `logger.trace`. If I flip that in the JS...

Ew. No, that's give me the system trace info as well. For now I'll do a `s/trace/debug` instead.
```sh
DirWalker sourceDir from config = undefined

DirWalker, message.targetPath = /home/danny/sites/strandz.it/postcraft
DirWalker, message.rootDir = /home/danny/hyperdata/transmissions/src/applications/md-to-sparqlstore
DirWalker, message.sourceDir = undefined
DirWalker resolved dirPath = /home/danny/hyperdata/transmissions/src/applications/md-to-sparqlstore/data
DirWalker.walkDirectory, dir = /home/danny/hyperdata/transmissions/src/applications/md-to-sparqlstore/data
DirWalker.walkDirectory, dir = /home/danny/hyperdata/transmissions/src/applications/md-to-sparqlstore/data/input
DirWalker emitting :
```
Bum.
The priority for settings should go like :

1. inter-process message
2. `manifest.ttl` in the target given as a command-line arg
3. `config.ttl` application default-ish values associated with the transmission (pointed to by `transmissions.ttl`)
4. whatever fallbacks I slapped in the code

Ok, I'd check if this, in transmissions.ttl` ... `config.ttl` will be picked up first :
```turtle
:p10 a :DirWalker ;
    :settings :dirWalker .
...
:dirWalker a :ConfigSet ;
    :sourceDir "/home/danny/sites/strandz.it/postcraft/content-raw" .
```
Good-o, that's fine. The log includes :
```sh
- DirWalker emit 13 : /home/danny/sites/strandz.it/postcraft/content-raw/knowledge/references/about.md
```

So the problem lies in my precedence code in `src/model/Processor.js`, that contains the superclass of the processors defined in `src/processors/fs/DirWalker.js` etc. Which is very annoying, I shouldn't have to touch the core code at this point in time.

Dogwalk time.

---

PS. A day later, I found the problem. The JS code was actually working correctly, What I was missing was a reference in the transmission the settings node, `:dirWalker` here:
```turtle
:p10 a :DirWalker ;
   :settings :dirWalker .
```
