# Journal

*I'm trying to keep my writing here organised, but a recurring problem is the daily raw stuff. I'm going to give up on ahead-of-time org, just accept there'll usually be a dump page.*

## Transmissions Message Cloning Issue

in `Processor.executeQueue()`
`src/model/Processor.js`

```javascript
/* structuredClone makes a deep copy of the message object
           *  so that the original message is not modified
           *  except its depth doesn't appear to cover internal objects
           *  so here the app.dataset is passed between messages
           *  (which is fine)
           */
           const dataset = message.app.dataset
           message = structuredClone(message)
           message.app.dataset = dataset
```
This is needed anywhere messages get copied. Right now I need to add it to `DirWalker` and `ForEach`. *How did I do the JSON treewalker? Maybe there too.*

./trans  -v config-setting-manifest tests/applications/config-setting-manifest

I should really read up more on this (and write it up, it's a little tarpit that I doubt is well-known). I did look into it briefly a few months ago. *Was one approach serializing objects, copying, deserialising*.
This approach is ok for now, but does feel like a kludge. I bet there's a util in #:lodash. Whatever, I'll isolate it in `src/utils/SysUtils.js`

## Integration tests based on applications (and #:simples)

Prompted by the issue above.

## tbox Startup Issue

`docker-compose` needs changing for a healthier #:Fuseki

`/home/danny/hyperdata/tbox/about.md`

```sh
sudo systemctl stop tbox
cd ~/hyperdata/tbox # my local dir
docker-compose down
docker-compose up -d
```
##




/home/danny/hyperdata/transmissions/src/applications/md-to-sparqlstore

```sh
cd ~/hyperdata/transmissions # my local path
./trans md-to-sparqlstore
```

Heh, BBC R4 Woman's Hour just used the phrase "work-life balance". I need to mention that in #:adhd notes, it makes as much sense to me as "literature-earthworm balance". Except I've already thought of several ways the latter could be interpreted and realised "earthworm-earthworm balance" would probably be a better equivalent. Work is stuff you do, ie. life. In the *job* sense, there's an aspect where you get given money, but that's tangential to the living. It's either comparing apples and oranges or comparing *this* apple with *this same* apple. No wonder I'm hopeless at getting an income.
