# Ragno

*note to self*

#:Ragno is what I'm calling the engine and vocab I've developing for use with #:Semem, my semantic memory system.

A lot of it comes from the projection of the ideas in the [NodeRAG](https://terry-xu-666.github.io/NodeRAG_web/) [paper](https://github.com/Terry-Xu-666/NodeRAG#) into the semweb space. I had plans in place & code in progress before that material was published, but there's so much overlap with what I already had in mind I have to merge in what I can. It should save a lot of time.

I have my own vocab material in draft form, plus Claude-generated NodeRAG OWL & SPARQL bits. Merging should be pretty straightforward: my stuff is a generalization of NodeRAG concepts anyhow, I only need to tweak a few things to overlay them.

The NodeRAG material appearing has had a secondary effect on what I'm doing with vocab. I was going to put all my #:semem-related bits in the #:zpt, *"Zoom, Pan, Tilt"*, namespace. But looking now there is a natural separation of concerns to use : #:ragno is about the representation; #:zpt is about access and navigation.

First pass I won't attempt the more novel parts of #:zpt (write-up coming soon), because the engine of NodeRAG is low-hanging fruit given the bits of dev infrastructure I have in place. It can make it using my pipeliney thing #:transmissions.

## Setup

This calls for *yet another* GitHub repo : https://github.com/danja/ragno . Pop it in my local setup, `~/hyperdata/ragno`.

I'll need some build bits, so `npm init -y`.

I'll need documentation, so I'll have the current #:postcraft template (copy-pasted locally as `docs/postcraft`). It still uses a bunch of different #:transmissions so I'd better get those working before anything else. Wait, no, first, plan what else I need to do...

## Plan

* install NodeRAG, have a play
* refactor semem to clean interfaces
* incorporate hyperdata-clients in semem
* make sure remote transmissions apps still work (probably not - I disconnected the tests before making a bunch of system changes)
* create ragno trans-app
* set up #:postcraft documentation
* worker threads
* multi-transmissions (for postcraft)

src/applications/test/file-to-sparqlstore
