# Journal 2025-03-26

**Yay!**

I spent much of the last couple of weeks paying off technical debt. A blocker was my doc management setup #:postcraft, an application of #:transmissions. On the surface (and my immediate need is), the world's most over-engineered static site builder for my blog.

The last 5 yards was really frustrating. But now I have the trickiest parts good-enough for now, the transmissions being (source on GitHub) :

* [md-to-sparqlstore](https://github.com/danja/transmissions/tree/main/src/applications/md-to-sparqlstore) - walks local dirs, pushes markdown docs (with metadata) to a SPARQL store
* [sparqlstore-to-html](https://github.com/danja/transmissions/tree/main/src/applications/sparqlstore-to-html) - pulls docs from SPARQL store and renders as HTML pages
* [sparqlstore-to-site-indexes](https://github.com/danja/transmissions/tree/main/src/applications/sparqlstore-to-site-indexes) - this renders a `index.html` and a `atom.xml` for the most recent entries.

The site-specific configuration for all of these is contained in a [manifest.ttl](https://github.com/danja/strandz.it/blob/main/postcraft/manifest.ttl) (this one currently only being used for testing).

All this is provisional, there's a lot of tweaking to do in the #:postcraft application, loads of refactoring needed in #:transmissions along with masses of minor bugfixes and small feature additions. But I'm thinking I'm just about ready to publish a 0.9.0 version of #:transmissions as an npm, #:postcraft very soon as a release.

Get my blog publishing again first. This needs the static site support stuff - CSS etc - copying in place. Right now the above works by processing *everything*, but I know how to make it more sensible. Easiest way I can tell it is working is by cleaning up first.
I believe I've got all the necessary to do this more-or-less in place, I just need to create the transmission.

So I've copied [example-application](https://github.com/danja/transmissions/tree/main/src/applications/example-application) and renamed to [postcraft-statics](https://github.com/danja/transmissions/tree/main/src/applications/postcraft-statics).

It needs to :
1. delete current site material - maybe not all at once, so I can be more selective if need be
2. copy layouts across
3. publish to host

I think I will leave 3. for now. I have been using GitHub as a transfer mechanism - push from my desktop, pull from the server.

For 1. I have [src/processors/fs/FileRemove.js](https://github.com/danja/transmissions/blob/main/src/processors/fs/FileRemove.js). On a skim that looks current with the engine now (comments/docs need doing - later).
For 2. [src/processors/fs/FileCopy.js](https://github.com/danja/transmissions/blob/main/src/processors/fs/FileCopy.js) grrr, that isn't up-to-date. But it looks easily fixable.

Oh, I also have to update the #:postcraft template dir layout to the latest conventions I'm going for:
```sh
danny@danny-desktop:~/sites/strandz.it$ tree -L 2 --filesfirst postcraft/

postcraft/
├── about.md
├── manifest.ttl
├── content
│   ├── media
│   ├── raw
│   └── static
├── layout
│   ├── base
│   └── logos
├── public
│   ├── atom.xml
│   ├── index.html
│   └── blog
└── system
    ├── endpoints.json
    └── sparql-templates
```

Under `content` I've got :
```sh
├── content
│   ├── media
│   │   └── images
│   ├── raw
│   │   ├── articles
│   │   ├── entries
│   │   ├── journal
│   │   ├── knowledge
│   │   └── todo
│   └── static
│       └── references
```

Hmm. Ditch `journal`, it's been easier to put these under `entries`, I can tag/filter later.
